# WebSVF Presentation Transcript

Hi I am Akshat Kaushik, a final year Software Engineering student with a budding passion for
open source software development.


I will be taking you guys through my Capstone Project, WebSVF which I’ve been working on
with my team of fellow developers under the supervision of Dr Yulei.


At the beginning of the project we had a simple objective to create a graphical user interface for
the open source static bug analysis tool called Static Value Flow Analysis or SVF. As we made
progress developing the application, it transformed into something much more.
Our team saw great potential in our tool as it started to come together and we started
brainstorming ways how we can take the code analysis and apply it to a much larger scale.
Which brings me to the problem our project aims to address: Software Vulnerabilities.


Nearly 90% of the code being written and used today is open source. While I love open source,
the number of open source vulnerabilities are cumulatively compounding at a staggering rate
every year. It comes down to the companies using the software to fix these vulnerabilities for the
users.
That brings me to the second issue developers face, most of these vulnerabilities are not caught
at the time of software development because the analysis tools being used at the time of
development are not configured to detect these undiscovered vulnerabilities.


That&#39;s where WebSVF comes in, the backend tool powering WebSVF, iteratively analyses the
data and flow of information for increased precision in detecting errors in both areas.
Users can write their own tests to add to the SVF Analysis Suite to configure it for new
discovered vulnerabilities. At the current stage in development, WebSVF provides an interface
for users to interact with Bug Analysis reports generated by SVF in two ways:
First, through a bug report which takes the command-line bug analysis information given by
SVF and transforms it into a modern website like bug report.
Second, through a 3D Force Graph which allows users to visualise the entire project as a code
map highlighting the files by color coding them based on the errors that exist within them. A user
can also find out the direction of flow of information across any single file by clicking on it.


We chose not to create a dedicated interface for these features as it would involve yet another
round of UX design and testing for no particular need from the user for another integrated
development environment in an industry already full of such software. We instead chose to
publish WebSVF as plugins to the most popular development environment, Visual Studio Code.
Which is a free to use, open source software developed by Microsoft that is available readily
across all platforms. It also has a robust Extension API which allows us developers to migrate
our code as extensions to the environment with minimal effort.
The WebSVF interface can be installed as an extension on any installation of VSCode whether
it is installed as a desktop application on your system or if using it through a web browser,
installed on a server somewhere.


This is a quick demo of the Bug Report section of WebSVF. You can launch the Bug Report by
clicking on the button (‘Bug Analysis Tool’) in the bottom left section of the status bar. Once it is
done setting up all the necessary files, it is going to open up the Bug Report inside the VSCode
browser by splitting the View in half. Once it is launched it is going to give you an overview of all
the bugs found inside the program and list all the types of bugs in the form of a table. You
tick/untick bug types in the table and in the lower half section of the report, it is going to give you
an analysis of all the files and the bugs found in them. You can click on the filename (or
bugname) to take you inside that file then you can click on each of those errors to give you
reference lines for all the lines of code affected by that error inside that file. You can click on the
Bug Report icon again to close.


When I started working with the project last year, the WebSVF research was focused on
working with a pre-configured version of SVF, at the same time we were targeting a VSCode
environment which was hosted on a server. Unfamiliar with both of these environments it was
very difficult for me to get started with them. At the same time the code server we were using to
host our VSCode instances online was in very early stages of development.
While I was fortunate enough to conduct many meaningful face-to-face meetings with my
supervisor and development team before the global pandemic, the majority of the project was
developed using online consultations which can be especially challenging when you’re working
with team members across different time zones.


Until recently I was skeptical about our project’s outcome due to all the factors adversely
affecting our development. But as they say ‘Slow and Steady wins the race’, and we did just
that. We were not only able to successfully integrate our project to work in a local environment
but also deploy it to work in an online VSCode workspace which we were having tons of
problems resolving when we first began. This allowed us to look into the next stage in product
innovation and transform our tool from a standalone bug analysis into a platform, allowing users
to create codespaces from our website. These codespaces can be configured to have our
analysis plugins as well as any software required for development be installed before the user
even launches the codespace for the first time. This eliminates any issue where developers
aren’t able to set up software in their environment and begin development.


This project began with innovating a better way to show the users the analyses performed by
the SVF tool. Which led to the creation of WebSVF, the standalone analysis tool for developers
to analyse their project and to be able to see and interact with the results.
In the next stage of the WebSVF project, our team aims to provide developers the ability to
create multiple instances or code spaces configured with the tools and services required for
development. We plan to create a free tier where every user is allowed to create upto 1 code
space with restricted hardware resources on our platform. They may then choose to share this
codespace with others for collaboration. Every one of these code spaces will take up resources
on a server hosted by us developers. We’re thinking of creating a paid subscription plan for
teams and enterprises allowing much greater flexibility, enabling users to create multiple
instances of the same codespace pre-configured with the right tools and software required for
development, update the configurations for these code spaces in real time as well as assign a
code space for different team members for them to work on.


As we were thinking of ways to broaden the reach and adoption of our WebSVF, analysis tool,
we thought about offering WebSVF as a platform, allowing users to create their own
development environment from anywhere, accessible on any device and still be able to run
WebSVF’s analysis tools to test and secure their applications.


Our team believes in the service and it won’t be long before we start using it for development
ourselves to demonstrate the ease of use and benefits of our platform.
We are now looking for seed funding for our project to be able to continue developing this
platform as well as cover the incurred hosting and production costs during this process.
To bootstrap our search for investment we have already signed up our research project,
WebSVF as a UTS Startup as well as register it under the On Accelerate and UTS
Techcelerator programs as we continue building the commercial model and prepare to launch
the platform.